Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTcvDnUMCU

Questions and Answers Asked ::

1.  What is configuration management? 
   -  Answer:  Configuration management comes into the picture because manually managing updates and configurations on numerous servers is prone to human error. It allows for tracking updates over time and automating changes across multiple systems using SSH, enabling secure automation.

2.  Are you doing configuration management manually or through CI/CD? 
   -  Answer:  Using CI/CD.

3.  What do you understand by CI/CD? 
   -  Answer:  CI (Continuous Integration) is about streamlining development and deployment processes, while CD (Continuous Delivery) is about pushing code from the remote repository to production.

4.  Why did you choose Ansible over other tools like Chef or SaltStack? 
   -  Answer:  Ansible is agentless, uses SSH, is built on Python (an easy and popular language), has a push architecture, and is easy to set up. It also supports inventory management, which is not as straightforward in Chef or Puppet.

5.  What are Ansible modules? 
   -  Answer:  Ansible modules are like functions or standalone scripts that execute tasks. They come in two types: core modules, which are included with Ansible, and extra modules, which can be added as needed.

6.  Can you explain Ansible inventory and its types? 
   -  Answer:  Ansible inventory is a YAML file listing the IP addresses of hosts. There are two types: static inventory, where IPs are fixed, and dynamic inventory, where IPs are generated by scripts, typically in Python.

7.  How does Ansible actually work? 
   -  Answer:  Ansible combines modules, playbooks, and plugins. Modules are small codes executed for tasks, playbooks contain plays (which are sets of tasks), and plugins are special modules for logging purposes.

8.  What is Ansible Vault and how do you use it? 
   -  Answer:  Ansible Vault is used to encrypt sensitive data like passwords. Commands include `ansible-vault encrypt` to encrypt a file and `ansible-vault decrypt` to decrypt it.

9.  Do you use Ansible Tower in your project? Why? 
   -  Answer:  Yes, Ansible Tower provides a UI, simplifies dependencies management, enables running playbooks across different teams, tracks logs, and allows easy inventory updates. It is created by Red Hat.

10.  How would you copy multiple files to a target host recursively in Ansible? 
    -  Answer:  Using the `synchronize` module with the source path, destination path, and inventory hostname.

11.  How do you use Ansible to create encrypted files? 
    -  Answer:  Using the command `ansible-vault create <filename>` to create an encrypted file. This prompts for a password and creates the encrypted file.

12.  What is the difference between a playbook and a play in Ansible? 
    -  Answer:  A playbook is a collection of plays, where each play is a set of tasks to be executed on a host.

13.  Can you write an Ansible playbook to install Nginx? 
    -  Answer:  The candidate wrote a basic playbook specifying the host, variables, tasks, and handlers to install and restart Nginx.

### Example Playbook Written by the Candidate
- name: Install and configure Nginx
  hosts: staging
  vars:
    http_port: 80
  tasks:
    - name: Install Nginx
      apt:
        name: nginx
        state: present
      notify:
        - restart nginx

  handlers:
    - name: restart nginx
      service:
        name: nginx
        state: restarted

The interviewer also asked about the candidate's experience with various aspects of Ansible, the types of projects they worked on, and their understanding of different configuration management tools.
